Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) is a programming paradigm that uses objects to design applications and computer programs. The main aim of OOP is to bind together the data and the functions that operate on them so that no other part of the code can access this data except that function. OOPs Concepts include:

1. Class: A class is a user-defined data type. It consists of data members and member functions, which can be accessed and used by creating an instance of that class. It represents the set of properties or methods that are common to all objects of one type. A class is like a blueprint for an object.

2. Objects: An object is an instance of a Class. When a class is defined, no memory is allocated but when it is instantiated (i.e. an object is created) memory is allocated. An object has an identity, state, and behavior.

3. Data Abstraction: Data abstraction refers to providing only essential information about the data to the outside world, hiding the background details or implementation.

4. Encapsulation: Encapsulation is defined as the wrapping up of data under a single unit. It is the mechanism that binds together code and the data it manipulates.

5. Inheritance: Inheritance is a mechanism in which one class acquires the property of another class.

6. Polymorphism: Polymorphism means "many forms". It occurs when there are many classes that are related to each other by inheritance.

7. Dynamic Binding: Dynamic binding (also known as late binding) means that the code associated with a given procedure call is not known until the time of the call at runtime.



Source: 
(1) Introduction of Object Oriented Programming - GeeksforGeeks. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/introduction-of-object-oriented-programming/.
(2) Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) Concepts in C++. https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/cpp-tutorial/oops-concepts-in-cpp.
(3) Java OOPs Concepts - Javatpoint. https://www.javatpoint.com/java-oops-concepts.
(4) Object Oriented Programming (OOPs) Concept in Java. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/object-oriented-programming-oops-concept-in-java/.
